Housing Process:

First-Year Students:
Prospective freshmen who are admitted for the fall term through Admissions and Financial Aid and pay their $300 enrollment fee by May 1st and their $325 housing deposit by the deadline printed on their housing contract are guaranteed on-campus housing. This guarantee is good for three years provided that all housing application and deposit deadlines in each subsequent year are met. The Housing and Dining Services Contract is for both fall and spring terms.

Panther Central assigns all first-year students to on-campus housing in residence hall style accommodations. Housing is not on a first come first served basis. Regardless of when your application was completed, we run a mass allocation in mid-June. All students who have met their individual housing deadlines and are completed at that point will be assigned via our mass allocation and have a fair shot at obtaining their preferences. Our system randomly selects students and assigns them according to preferences, as available. However, we are occasionally unable to accommodate preferences simply based on what is available when a student's name is selected.

Due to the University's rolling admission, Panther Central will continue to assign in smaller allocations throughout the summer. However, the majority of assignments are completed during the initial allocation.

Nonguaranteed First Year Students:
Nonguaranteed first-year students who wish to live in University housing will be placed on a waiting list in the order in which their housing contract and deposit are received. Waiting list students are not guaranteed on-campus accommodations. Notification of possible on-campus housing does not usually occur before late June.

Upperclass Students:
Full-time students who have lived on campus during their first year with a housing guarantee are guaranteed housing for their second and third years if they continue to satisfy all housing application and deadline requirements in each successive year.

If a student misses any housing deadline or requirement in any year, the housing guarantee is automatically revoked. Once the guarantee is revoked, it cannot be reinstated for any reason.

Upperclass Selection Process:
Students are guaranteed on-campus housing for their first three years, provided they meet housing application and deposit deadlines each year. On-campus housing consists of residence hall, apartment-style and fraternity accommodations.

Each spring eligible students living on campus have the opportunity to select their accommodations for the next year through an online lottery.

 
Suite and Apartment-Style Selection Process:
Multi-room, multi-person, and single-unit suites are available in several residence halls. Multi-room, multi-person, and single-unit apartments are available in apartment-style accommodations. Groups of suitemates and apartment-mates (eligible juniors-to-be and sophomores-to-be) bid on desired suites and apartment-style accommodations using a point system based upon academic class and years of residency. Ties are broken by the lowest randomly assigned housing selection index number in each group.

Room, Suite, and Apartment-Style Retention Eligible juniors-to-be and sophomores-to-be may retain their rooms, suites, or apartment-style accommodations for the following academic year. The University reserves the right to designate currently occupied rooms, suites, and apartment-style accommodations as unavailable for the following year.

Room Selection Process
Upon completion of the Suite and Apartment-Style Selection and Retention Processes eligible juniors-to-be and sophomores-to-be select their residence hall rooms for the next academic year in a lottery determined by academic class and a randomly assigned housing selection index number.


Sorority and Fraternity Housing:
Any Fraternity or Sorority member wishing to live with their respective chapter must complete the housing and dining contract and application by the specified date provided by Panther Central. The chapter president will work with Panther Central regarding placement of their chapter. Panther Central will determine who is eligible for housing based on the student's contract and application status.

Off-Campus, University-Owned Apartments:
The University owns several hundred apartments that are available to undergraduate and graduate students. University-owned apartments are unfurnished and range from efficiencies to three-bedroom units. These units are not considered on-campus housing and are administered via a lease, security deposit, and monthly payments.

Applications for University-owned apartments are accepted by Off-Campus Living, located at 127 North Bellefield Avenue, beginning the second Monday in January on a first-come, first-served basis. You also may apply online. If you have any questions, you may contact the Off Campus Living department at 412-624-6998.